---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7"
date:   2020-10-23 23:56:56 -0800
categories: Fall 2020 CIT 480
author: "Lance Arjona"
---

<h2>Cyber Security</h2>

<body>
    <h3>Phishing</h3>
        <p>Phishing is when someone sends a fraudulent email that looks legitimate in order to get users to log in or input their personal information in order to use it with malicious intent. In order to protect yourself from phishing scams some best practices are to never click on suspicious links from emails with improper grammar or spelling, verify the link uses HTTPS, and to use an anti-spy and spam software. I use these practices and the other day I almost fell for a phishing scam since the email looked legitimate and the email name was the same as the Paypal name. I was saved due to my anti-virus detected that it was a phishing scam so I am thankful for that.</p>
    <h3>Ransomware</h3>
        <p>Ransomware is when a hacker sends malicious software to a user or company that encrypts the user's data and locks it so they can no longer access it. In order for the user to get their data back is either to pay the hacker the ransom amount or if they're lucky wipe their computer as long as they have their data backed up. The hackers usually target smaller companies with minimal security since it is less work and the company may not have backups of their data, where as tech giants have heavy security in order to protect data and backup that data frequently. Best practices for this is to update your data frequently and never pay the ransom amount. </p>
    <h3>Social Engineering</h3>
        <p>Social Engineering is usually used to trick users into disclosing their personal information in order to gain monetary or confidential data. This is usually executed by clicking on suspicious links and filling out personal information on suspicious sites or downloading malware through untrusted software. Best practices is to never click on suspicious links and to ensure you are in an HTTPS site.</p>
</body>