---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10"
date:   2020-11-13 23:08:56 -0800
categories: Fall 2020 CIT 480
author: "Lance Arjona"
---

<h2>Computer Forensics Part 2</h2>

<body>
<h3>Collection</h3>
<p>The collection process is collecting all the data and or evidence of the event. This is an on-site process that ensures the preservation of all the evidence such as securing devices that hold evidence and or taking notes of the scene.
Think of a crime scene, the first thing investigators need to do is preserve the scene and avoid tampering with anything that may be a clue to who the perpetrator may be. If the scene is tampered with, it destroys the integrity of the scene.
Next is logging every little detail of the scene, taking pictures, drawings, any little detail. If something is overlooked it may be the reason the perpetrator gets away. Once all the evidence is secured and logged next is the Analysis phase.</p>

<h3>Analysis</h3>
<p>The Analysis phase is studying the data and evidence from the Collection phase and piecing together the puzzle. The techniques used overlap with law enforcement forensic techniques, For example a message being sent from Device A and received on Device B, but they are using burner devices, so Device C and Device D enter but are also using the same IPs as the previous devices. The messages sent were regarding the crime, and being able to figure out one pattern will be able to narrow down who the culprits are. Figurign out patterns and what does not add up is what Analysts need to do to put the puzzle together.</p>


</body>