---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 5"
date:   2020-10-09 15:53:56 -0700
categories: Fall 2020 CIT 480
author: "Lance Arjona"
---

<h2>Access Points<h2>

<p>Access points has its many uses and my favorite one is being able to move from one part of the house and staying connected without any interruptions. It is able to do this by using the same SSID for all access points e.g. "eduroam" where a wireless device recognizes the same SSID and connect to it using the same credentials. It will only fail to connect if it is a different Network with different credentials e.g. a neighbor with the same SSID but different password to log onto the network. In the past, I have used wireless extenders over AP and realized the most inconvenient aspect of extenders: Having to reconnect to a different SSID and comprable speeds. The whole point of being able to have full coverage over the area you are connected to is being able to connect conveniently and with little compromises. After experiencing the ease of connection, better speeds, and overall coverage with APs I refuse to go back to the wireless extenders.
</p>

<p>The only downside with using APs is that it has a high cost the average consumer is may not be willing to pay, along with the setup process that is not plug and play. The non-tech savvy consumers may find it daunting to be able to set it up since it is not "plug and play" as they are used to with routers. As I was researching on my upgrade to APs within my hosue, I realized I needed to buy multiple devices in order for the AP to work, a switch that will need to be configured to the network. This is out of reach for the average consumer and would rather pay for a a wireless router that does it all but at the sacrifice of coverage. Another barrier to entry is being able to route all the ethernet cables around the house. You can't just have your ethernet cables running around the floor since it will be a tripping hazard along with being an eyesore without the know how of routing them through the attic or under the house.</p>