---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8"
date:   2020-10-30 12:22:56 -0800
categories: Fall 2020 CIT 480
author: "Lance Arjona"
---

<h2>Computer Forensics Part 1</h2>

<body>
<p>
In the event of data breach or cyber crime, Computer Forensics is a process where experts gather data to figure out how and where the breach occured. There are multiple ways a cyber criminal may have entered. It could have been an employee trying to retaliate in the event of a dispute of employment, phishing email, data theft, and more.


</p>

<h3>Readiness</h3>
<p>How prepared is a company in the event of a breach? If a company does not have an audit log, it will be difficult to be able figure out when the crime happened or what was accessed or taken. Having an audit log removes makes it easier of who, when, and what data was accessed. Think about a thief breaking into a home without cameras, it will be difficult to figure out what exact time the thief broke into the house if the owner was gone for 8 hours. Was it shortly after they left? the middle of the day? or right before they got home? Whereas a home with cameras, they can look at the recordings to be able to figure out the exact time the thief broke in. Being prepared will help authorities with their case because they have evidence that the crime indeed took place.</p>

<h3>Evaluation</h3>
<p>The Evaluation stage has an examiner looks at the scene and carries out risk analysis to figure out where to allocate man power and resources. If they put all their resources in one tasks that would only require one person to do, the other portions of the evaluation will not get done on time. There is a time constraint to figure out what to do and when to do it. They also need to figure out the possibility of a threat that the  evidence will be tampered with. Organizations also need to figure out whether its worth the hit on their reputation and making the event public. Especially with security issues with tech companies that will make the company look bad as we seen in the past such as google or yahoo with their emails.</p>


</body>