---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1"
date:   2020-09-011 17:17:56 -0700
categories: Fall 2020 CIT 480
author: "Lance Arjona"
---
<h2 id="HTML">HTML</h2>
<p>In my CIT 384 class I learned about how to create lists, links to open to other pages, anbd jumping to sections lists. So I will be showing examples of what I used for some of my assignments in my class.</p>

<h4>Jump to Section:</h4>
<ul>
    <li><a href="#HTML">HTML</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Creating Lists">Creating Lists</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Links">Link</a></li>
    <li><a href="#Jumping to Section">Jumping to Section</a></li>
</ul>


<h3 id="Creating Lists">Creating lists</h3>
<p>In order to create a list we need one of these two tags <b>&lt;ul&gt;&lt;/ul&gt;</b> for an unordered list  or <b>&lt;ol&lt;/ol&gt;</b> for an ordered list. Lastly we need the <b>&lt;li&gt;&lt;/li&gt;</b> to signify the selected items is what we want listed.</p>

<h4><b>Unordered List</b></h4>
<pre>
<b>Shopping list:</b>
<ul>
    <li>Eggs</li>
    <li>Milk</li>
    <li>Cheese</li>
    <li>Bread</li>
</ul>
<b>Code:</b>
&lt;ul&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Eggs&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Milk&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Cheese&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Bread&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
</pre>

<h4><b>Ordered List</b></h4>
<pre>
<b>How to bake a cake:</b>
<ol>
    <li>Prep ingredients</li>
    <li>Mix ingredients</li>
    <li>Preheat Oven</li>
    <li>Pour mix into a pan</li>
    <li>Put pan into oven</li>
    <li>Wait</li>
    <li>Take cake out of oven</li>
    <li>Eat</li>
</ol>
<b>Code:</b>
&lt;ol&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Prep ingredients&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Mix ingredients&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Preheat Oven&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Pour mix into a pan&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Put pan into oven&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Wait&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Take cake out of oven&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Eat&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ol&gt;
</pre>

<p><b>&lt;ul&gt;&lt;/ul&gt;</b> and <b>&lt;ol&lt;/ol&gt;</b> are the starting tags and nested in it will be the <b>&lt;li&gt;&lt;/li&gt;</b> tag to dictate what needs to be listed. <b>&lt;ul&gt;&lt;/ul&gt;</b> will show bullet points which I find useful to make lists that are not needed to be in a specific order whereas <b>&lt;ol&lt;/ol&gt;</b> will display numbers which is useful for a step-by-step process.</p>

<h3 id="Links">Links</h3>
<p>Links are useful for the end user so they can easily find out what the author is referring to. The author can even mask the long ugly link in their article as text or phrase in order to clean up their article along with making it functional. It can also be changed so the link opens in a new tab or in the current tab using target attributes _blank or _self.</p>

<pre>
<b>Linking example as text:</b>
<a href="https://www.csun.edu/" target="_blank">CSUN Website</a>

<b>Regular link:</b>
<a href="https://www.csun.edu/" target="_blank">https://www.csun.edu/</a>

<b>Link opening in a new tab</b>
<a href="https://twitter.com/csunorthridge" target="_blank">CSUN Twitter in a new tab</a>

<b>Link opening in current tab</b>
<a href="https://twitter.com/csunorthridge">CSUN Twitter in current tab</a>

<b>Code:</b>
<b>Linking example as text:</b>
&lt;a href="https://www.csun.edu/" target="_blank"&gt;CSUN Website&lt;/a&gt;

<b>Link opening in a new tab</b>
&lt;a href="https://twitter.com/csunorthridge" target="_blank"&gt;CSUN Twitter in a new tab&lt;/a&gt;

<b>Link opening in current tab</b>
&lt;a href="https://twitter.com/csunorthridge"&gt;CSUN Twitter in current tab&lt;/a&gt;
</pre>
<p>I had to create an href to determine the destination, followed by the text that would show up as a clickable link.</p>



<h3 id="Jumping to Section">Jumping to Section</h3>
<p>In order to create a link that jumps to a section of the page 2 things are needed, an ID for that anchor and a link to direct us to that anchor.</p><br>
<p>First I neeeded to create IDs for the sections I want to jump to, so that would be the sections: HTML, Creating Links, Links, and Jumpying to Section. I created the IDs based of the section I would be jumping to.</p><br>
<pre>
    <b>Creating IDs </b>
    &lt;h2 id="HTML"&gt;HTML&lt;/h2&gt;
    &lt;h3 id="Creating Lists"&gt;Creating lists&lt;/h3&gt;
    &lt;h3 id="Links"&gt;Links&lt;/h3&gt;
    &lt;h3 id="Jumping to Section"&gt;Jumping to Section&lt;/h3&gt;
</pre>


<p>I now need to create a link to jump to that section when clicked on.</p>
<pre>
    <b>Jump to Section:</b>
    <a href="#HTML">HTML</a>
    <a href="#Creating Lists">Creating Lists</a>
    <a href="#Links">Link</a>
    <a href="#Jumping to Section">Jumping to Section</a>

    <b>Jump to Section:</b>
    &lt;a href="#HTML"&gt;HTML&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#Creating Lists"&gt;Creating Lists&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#Links"&gt;Link&lt;/a&gt;
    &lt;a href="#Jumping to Section"&gt;Jumping to Section&lt;/a&gt;
</pre>

<p>Here is the syntax:</p>
<pre>
    &lt;a href="#id-name"&gt;Jump to the part of the page with the “id-name”&lt;/a&gt;
</pre>
