---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0"
date:   2020-09-04 14:23:56 -0700
categories: Fall 2020 CIT 480
author: "Lance Arjona"
---
<h3>Getting Started</h3>
<p>
At first I was very intimidated attempting this assignment because I was not 100% sure what I was doing but after seeing the <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pxua_1vyFck">Youtube link</a> from Samvel Vardanyan I was able to set up the first few steps to this blog.

Once everything was set up I started to play around with the editor and was enjoying seeing the changes I was making in Visual Studio Code being transferred to my browser. It felt like magic. Since I am learning HTML in my CIT 384 class I decided to put it into practice by adding headers, links, and formatting.
</p>
<h3>What I Learned</h3> 
<p>
This was my first time using Jekyll. The installation was easy and coding it was a breeze since I was already familiar with HTML so I was able implement things I've already learned along with learning something new.
</p>

<b>How to add Permalinks</b>
<p>
I wanted to to clean up my URL so I added a permalink so I can easily switch to my other Blog pages just by changing the number if I wanted to. I find it cleaner than a link with dates and string.
{% highlight html %}
permalink: "/Blog-0/"
{% endhighlight %}
</p>


<h3>What I Struggled with</h3>
My biggest struggle was being able syncing my files to my repository. It took me a couple of tries but I as able to do so after following this <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wrb7Gge9yoE">video</a>. It took me an hour to realize everything was already uploaded since I was getting errors in the terminal and thought I was doing something wrong. 