---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 12"
date:   2020-11-20 23:22:56 -0800
categories: Fall 2020 CIT 480
author: "Lance Arjona"
---

<h2>Datacenters</h2>

<body>
<h3>

<p>So something that really interested me was how datacenters worked in AWS and in video games. In AWS there are multiple physical datacenters in a region and it is better to have the physical hardware as close to you as possible to reduce latency. For the west coast, there is one in Oregon and one Northern California. What's the point of having all the datacenters in different areas? One is for coverage so people in said areas have lower latency and in the event of a natural disaster that destroys a datacenter, the data is backed up at another location and reduce downtime. An anology I think of is McDonald's, there are multiple locations of this restaurant, it is faster to go to the one closest to your house. In the event the one near your house is destroyed due to a natural distaster, you can go to another location to get the same food since your "data" is backed up at the other locations. It is all about redundancy that plays a big part of having datacenters.</p>

<p>A personal experience with video games I had with datacenters was a game I used to play had their datacenter in Santa Monica, and having low latency was amazing, there was no packet loss with my character jumping around the map and enemies were showing up as they were supposed to, but this company decided to move their datacenter to the East Coast and my ping went from 15ms to 60ms. It was notbad but it was not good either, the difference was noticeable at times where I was supposed to shoot a projectile but it would appear later than when I pressed my hotkey. So having datacenters close to the end user makes a difference in their experience and also for the companies using it.</p>

<p>One last example I have in regards to datacenters is for a game I am currently playing where they have multiple datacenters around the world, one in Japan, Europe, and North America. I've played on two different datacenters, North America, and Japan. My connection when playing on the North American server is to be as expected, low latency and no connection issues. It is a given since I am phyiscally closer to this data center. I am currently playing on the Japanese datacenter and my connection is not that great, high latency and occasional connection issues since I am physically farther away from this data center. It is assuring, since there are different datacenters at different locations that my data is backed up in the event something happens at one datacenter that is holding my account's data. </p>
</body>